SOME OPEN PROBLEMS
MATTHEW C. B. ZAREMSKY
Here are some open problems that I specifically like. In general these are just stated,
with minimal explanation or background. Some are famous, some are not; some might be
easy in the end, most probably not. Any new problems I’ve added over the years include
the date added; the original list was made on 6/15/23. The numbering of the problems is
fixed forever.
1. Finiteness properties, BNSR-invariants, and Dehn functions
1. Does every group of type Fn embed in a group of type Fn+1, for n≥ 2? What
about in a group of type F ∞?
2. Does every group of type F3 have solvable word problem? [The answer is no –
Xiaolei Wu pointed out a result of Collins and Miller producing a group of type F
with unsolvable word problem.]
3. If a finitely generated group is quasi-isometric to an ( n− 1)-connected proper
metric space, is the group of type F n? (The converse is true.)
4. Are type FPn and type FHn equivalent? That is, does every group of type FPn
admit a proper, cocompact action on an ( n− 1)-acyclic complex?
5. Are all Artin groups of type F ∞?
6. Compute the BNS-invariant Σ 1(A) for an arbitrary Artin group.
7. Conjecture of Juan-Pineda–Leary: If a group admits a finite classifying space for
the family of virtually cyclic subgroups, then the group is virtually cyclic. Related
Conjecture of von Puttkamer–Wu: If a finitely presented group has finitely many
virtually cyclic subgroups into which all virtually cyclic subgroups are conjugate,
then the group is virtually cyclic.
8. Compute the BNSR-invariants of graph braid groups.
9. Compute the BNSR-invariants of pure braid groups.
10. Find a finitely presented (or F ∞), infinite, simple, amenable group.
11. Find a finitely presented (or F ∞), infinite, torsion group.
12. Find an amenable, non-elementary amenable group of type F ∞.
13. Every Σ n(G) is an open subset of the character sphere Σ( G), but what about
Σ∞(G)? Must that be open?
14. Compute the BNSR-invariants of R¨ over–Nekrashevych groups.
15. Find finitely presented groups Gn (n≥ 2) with quadratic Dehn function such that
Gn is of type Fn but not Fn+1. (E.g., do Bieri–Stallings groups all have quadratic
Date: July 12, 2026.
2 M. C. B. ZAREMSKY
Dehn function?) [Actually this isn’t open, it was proved by Carter and Forester
using Bieri–Stallings groups.]
16. Find finitely presented simple groups with arbitrarily large (recursive) Dehn func-
tion.
17. (Vague:) If a finitely presented group acts cocompactly on a highly connected
complex with finitely presented cell stabilizers, prove that the Dehn function
is determined by the filling function of the complex, the Dehn functions of the
stabilizers, and the distortion of the stabilizers.
18. Does there exist a group G of type F∞ such that the BNSR-invariants Σ 1(G) ⊋
Σ2(G) ⊋··· are all properly nested?
19. Conjecture: If a right-angled Artin group has a finite index subgroup that maps
onto Z with kernel of type F n, then so does the right-angled Artin group itself.
20. (Added 6/12/25) Are there uncountably many simple groups of type FP2? Of type
FP?
21. (Added 7/24/25) For a group G, if G× Z is of type F then is G of type F? This
turns out to be equivalent to: If G is of type F∞ and has finite cohomological
dimension then is G of type F?
22. (Added 10/2/25) Find an example of a left-orderable simple group of type F. (Type
F∞ was done by Hyde–Lodha. If Burger–Mozes groups are left-orderable then
they’d do it.)
23. (Added 1/20/26) For a right-angled Artin group AΓ, it turns out that if some kernel
of a map onto Z is finitely presented then specifically the Bestvina–Brady kernel
BBΓ is finitely presented. Does something similar happen with Dehn functions?
That is, does the Dehn function of BBΓ serve as a lower bound for the Dehn
functions of all finitely presented kernels of maps onto Z?
24. (Added 2/24/26) For n≥ 3, Houghton’s group Hn is finitely presented. Lee proved
the Dehn function of Hn is at most exponential. Is it polynomial? Quadratic?
25. (Added 7/12/26) (Llosa Isenrich–Schesler–Wu) Does every countable group embed
in a simple group of type FP2? (Leary proved that every countable group embeds
in a group of type FP2, so this would prove a sort of “ FP2 version” of the Boone–
Higman conjecture.)
2. Thompson groups
1. Is Thompson’s group F amenable?
2. Is F automatic?
3. Is every subgroup of F either elementary amenable or else contains a copy of F ?
(Brin–Sapir Conjecture)
4. (Bridson) Is F quasi-isometric to F× Z? (Related:) Is F quasi-isometric to
F× F ? Is F quasi-isometric to T ? (Surely not, but why not?) “Easier”: Does F
quasi-retract onto F× Z or F× F ? Does T quasi-retract onto F ?
5. Prove T and V have quadratic Dehn function. Compute the higher-rank Dehn
functions of F , T , and V (are they all euclidean?) [Update: Matteo Migliorini
SOME OPEN PROBLEMS 3
has proved that T has quadratic Dehn function: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.
23088.]
6. Prove the Stein group F2,3 does not embed into V . [Update: James Hyde, Rachel
Skipper, and myself proved this in https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.20564]
7. Do the Brin–Thompson groups nV (n≥ 2) have the Haagerup property? Or
Property (T)?
8. Find an infinite dimensional torsion-free group of type F∞ that does not contain F .
9. Is braided V acyclic?
10. Is braided V Hopfian? Is every quotient of braided V finitely presented? (This
would imply Hopfian.)
11. Is braided V inner amenable? (Probably not.)
12. Prove “loop braided V ” is of type F∞.
13. Compute the BNSR-invariants of the pure braided Brown–Higman–Thompson
groups bFn,r.
14. Boone–Higman Conjecture: A finitely generated group has solvable word problem
iff it embeds in a finitely presented simple group. (I put this in the “Thompson
groups” section since a resolution to this conjecture would presumably come from
the world of Thompson-like groups.)
15. (Added 2/10/24) Does every torsion-free subgroup of V with no non-abelian free
subgroups embed into F ? [Update 4/3/26: No, Corentin Bodart points out the
(torsion-free) Klein bottle group embeds in V , but cannot embed in F since it is
not bi-orderable. So perhaps the question should be re-posed with “torsion-free”
replaced by “bi-orderable”.]
16. (Added 2/10/24) Lehnert’s conjecture: Every group with context-free co-word
problem embeds in Thompson’s group V . So, question, given a cloning system on
a family of finite groups Gn, is the Thompson-like group T (G∗) coCF and/or does
it embed into V ?
17. (Added 2/10/24) Does T contain a copy of T× T ? (Surely yes, but how?) [In
fact no! Jim Belk points out that every finite subgroup of T is cyclic, so T cannot
contain T× T .]
18. (Added 6/19/24) Does Thompson’s group F admit a cobounded action by isometries
on the hyperbolic plane?
19. (Added 10/2/24) Various questions about which groups embed in Thompson’s
group V and/or the Brin–Thompson groups 2 V , 3V , etc. Does every hyperbolic
group embed in one of these? Is there a hyperbolic group that does not embed in
V ? Does every GLn(Z) embed in some mV ? Maybe even in 2 V ? Does Q embed in
2V ? [Xiaolei Wu points out that the answer to, “Is there a hyperbolic group that
does not embed in V ?” is yes, because an infinite hyperbolic group with property
(T) cannot embed in V , on account of V having the Haagerup property. For 2 V
and up, things remain mysterious.]
20. (Added 10/2/25) Does F admit a faithful 2-transitive action? (Question of Le
Boudec–Matte Bon)
4 M. C. B. ZAREMSKY
3. Matrix groups, braid groups, etc
1. Is the Torelli group of Out(Fn) (or M CG(Sg), or Aut(Fn)) finitely presented for
large enough n or g?
2. Do braid groups embed in GL n(Z)?
3. Is SL 2(Z[t, t−1]) finitely generated?
4. Is SL3(Z) coherent? (Meaning every finitely generated subgroup is finitely pre-
sented.) (Famous problem of Serre.)
5. Is the 4-strand Burau representation faithful?
6. Are braid groups CAT(0)? Even without requiring cocompactness this is unknown.
7. Do braid groups have the Haagerup property?
8. Given an Artin group A, we can embed it in the finitely generated simple twisted
Brin–Thompson group AVA. Does this group embed in a finitely presented group?
If so, then this would prove that Artin groups have solvable word problem.
9. (Added 5/18/24) Are braid groups self-similar? More generally, are there any
examples of (say, finitely presented) groups that are residually finite but don’t
embed in a (say, finitely presented) self-similar group?
10. (Added 3/20/25) Does every Out(Fm) embed in some Aut(Fn)? Does every
MCG(Sg) embed in some Out( Fn) and/or some Aut( Fn)?
4. Vietoris–Rips complexes
1. If a group is amenable and automatic, does it have a contractible Rips complex?
(This would show that F cannot be both amenable and automatic.)
2. Is every (connected) Rips complex of every (finite?) subset of the plane homotopy
equivalent to a wedge of spheres?
3. Is the Rips complex of Zn with the standard word metric contractible for large
enough Rips parameter? [The answer is yes, recently proved by Ziga Virk in
arXiv:2405.09134.]
4. If a group is of type Fn does it admit an ( n− 1)-connected Rips complex? For
n = 2 the answer is yes, but for n > 2 we don’t know.
5. (Added 10/2/24): Is the Rips complex of any RAAG with the standard word metric
contractible for large enough Rips parameter?
6. (Added 10/2/24): If a group is of type F∞ and has finite cohomological dimension,
then does it have a contractible Rips complex? (This would imply it’s of type F,
so this would solve Problem 21 in Section 1 above.)
7. (Added 7/24/25): Relatedly, does every group of type F have a contractible Rips
complex?
Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University at Albany (SUNY), Albany, NY
Email address : mzaremsky@albany.edu